README.md, before:

# Frank.CronJobs
This is based on CronQuery, which I am a contributor to. This is built on that code to extend its functionality in experimental ways

___
[![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/frankhaugen/Frank.CronJobs)](LICENSE)
[![NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Frank.CronJobs.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Frank.CronJobs)
[![NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/dt/Frank.CronJobs.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Frank.CronJobs)

![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/frankhaugen/Frank.CronJobs)
![GitHub Release Date - Published_At](https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/frankhaugen/Frank.CronJobs)
![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/frankhaugen/Frank.CronJobs)
![GitHub commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/frankhaugen/Frank.CronJobs)
![GitHub pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/frankhaugen/Frank.CronJobs)
![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/frankhaugen/Frank.CronJobs)
![GitHub closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-closed/frankhaugen/Frank.CronJobs)
___

## Usage

This library is designed to be used with the `Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection` library. It is designed to be used 
list this in your `Program.cs` file:

```c#
using Frank.CronJobs;

var services = new ServiceCollection();
services.AddCronJob<MyJob>("0 15 10 * * ?");

var serviceProvider = services.BuildServiceProvider();

await serviceProvider.StartAsync();
```

This will start the job at 10:15 AM every day. The `MyJob` class should implement the `ICronJob` interface, and the
`ExecuteAsync` method should be implemented. This method will be called every time the cron expression is satisfied.

If you want to stop or modify the job, you can use the `IScheuleMaintainer` interface to stop, start, or modify any job at 
runtime like this:

```c#
var maintainer = serviceProvider.GetRequiredService<IScheduleMaintainer>();
maintainer.Stop<MyJob>();
```

This will stop the job from running. You can also start it again by calling `Start<MyJob>()`. You can also modify the 
schedule and timezones of the job by calling `SetSchedule<MyJob>("0 15 10 * * ?")` and `SetTimeZone<MyJob>
("America/New_York")` respectively.

The job runner is added as a hosted service, so it will run as long as the application is running.

The scenario for editing the schedule at runtime is meant to make it flexible for the user to change the schedule of the
job without having to restart the application, or specify the schedule in a configuration file, and so anything that can 
have the opportunity y to change the schedule at runtime. A service that react to IOptions changes, for example, can 
look like this:

```c#
public class MyService
{
    private readonly IOptionsMonitor<MyOptions> _optionsMonitor;
    private readonly IScheduleMaintainer _scheduleMaintainer;

    public MyService(IOptionsMonitor<MyOptions> optionsMonitor, IScheduleMaintainer scheduleMaintainer)
    {
        _optionsMonitor = optionsMonitor;
        _scheduleMaintainer = scheduleMaintainer;
        _optionsMonitor.OnChange(OnOptionsChange);
    }

    private void OnOptionsChange(MyOptions options)
    {
        _scheduleMaintainer.SetSchedule<MyJob>(options.CronExpression);
        // etc.
    }
}
```


## Installation

Install the NuGet package directly from the package manager console:

```powershell
PM> Install-Package Frank.CronJobs
```

## License

Frank.CronJobs is licensed under the [MIT license](LICENSE).

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome, please submit a pull request after you create an issue if you have any ideas or find any 
bugs. Major changes should be discussed in an issue before submitting a pull request. Also, no new dependencies unless 
discussed and agreed upon in an issue first.

## Credits

This library is based on [CronQuery](https://github.com/marxjmoura/cronquery), which I am a contributor to. This is built on 
that code for the basic cron functionality, and some patterns and ideas are borrowed from that project.

Commit message:

Update logging configuration and package versions
Modified the logging configuration in Program.cs to simplify and switch to using console and debug logging, replacing the previously-used JSON console logging. The versions of several packages in Frank.CronJobs.Tests.csproj were also updated. Some minor adjustments were made to the README.md file to improve clarity and readability. Minor code updates were made to improve logging and correct minor formatting issues.

README.md, after:

# Frank.CronJobs

A simple library for running jobs on a schedule using cron expressions. Also the cron part is reusable and can be used 
standalone.

This library is designed to be used with the `Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection` library, and it is designed to be as 
easy and simple to use as possible. It is also designed to be as flexible as possible.

It is built on the [CronQuery](www.nuget.org/packages/CronQuery) library, but with a different API and approach.

___
[![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/frankhaugen/Frank.CronJobs)](LICENSE)
[![NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Frank.CronJobs.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Frank.CronJobs)
[![NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/dt/Frank.CronJobs.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Frank.CronJobs)

![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/frankhaugen/Frank.CronJobs)
![GitHub Release Date - Published_At](https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/frankhaugen/Frank.CronJobs)
![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/frankhaugen/Frank.CronJobs)
![GitHub commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/frankhaugen/Frank.CronJobs)
![GitHub pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/frankhaugen/Frank.CronJobs)
![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/frankhaugen/Frank.CronJobs)
![GitHub closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-closed/frankhaugen/Frank.CronJobs)
___

## Usage

This library is designed to be used with the `Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection` library. It is designed to be used 
list this in your `Program.cs` file:

```c#
using Frank.CronJobs;

var services = new ServiceCollection();
services.AddCronJob<MyJob>("0 15 10 * * ?");

var serviceProvider = services.BuildServiceProvider();

await serviceProvider.StartAsync();

class MyJob : ICronJob
{
    public Task ExecuteAsync(CancellationToken cancellationToken)
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Hello, world!");
        return Task.CompletedTask;
    }
}
```

This will start the job at 10:15 AM every day. The `MyJob` class should implement the `ICronJob` interface, and the
`ExecuteAsync` method should be implemented. This method will be called every time the cron expression is satisfied.

## Advanced Usage

If you want to stop or modify the job, you can use the `IScheuleMaintainer` interface to stop, start, or modify any job at 
runtime like this:

```c#
var maintainer = serviceProvider.GetRequiredService<IScheduleMaintainer>();
maintainer.Stop<MyJob>();
```

This will stop the job from running. You can also start it again by calling `Start<MyJob>()`. You can also modify the 
schedule and timezones of the job by calling `SetSchedule<MyJob>("0 15 10 * * ?")` and `SetTimeZone<MyJob>
("America/New_York")` respectively.

The job runner is added as a hosted service, so it will run as long as the application is running.

The scenario for editing the schedule at runtime is meant to make it flexible for the user to change the schedule of the
job without having to restart the application, or specify the schedule in a configuration file, and so anything that can 
have the opportunity to change the schedule at runtime. A service that react to IOptions changes, for example, can 
look like this:

```c#
public class MyService
{
    private readonly IOptionsMonitor<MyOptions> _optionsMonitor;
    private readonly IScheduleMaintainer _scheduleMaintainer;

    public MyService(IOptionsMonitor<MyOptions> optionsMonitor, IScheduleMaintainer scheduleMaintainer)
    {
        _optionsMonitor = optionsMonitor;
        _scheduleMaintainer = scheduleMaintainer;
        _optionsMonitor.OnChange(OnOptionsChange);
    }

    private void OnOptionsChange(MyOptions options)
    {
        _scheduleMaintainer.SetSchedule<MyJob>(options.CronExpression);
        // etc.
    }
}
```

## Installation

Install the NuGet package directly from the package manager console:

```powershell
PM> Install-Package Frank.CronJobs
```

## License

Frank.CronJobs is licensed under the [MIT license](LICENSE).

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome, please submit a pull request after you create an issue if you have any ideas or find any 
bugs. Major changes should be discussed in an issue before submitting a pull request. Also, no new dependencies unless 
discussed and agreed upon in an issue first.

## Credits

This library is based on [CronQuery](https://github.com/marxjmoura/cronquery), which I am a contributor to. This is built on 
that code for the basic cron functionality, and some patterns and ideas are borrowed from that project. This is however a 
separate implementation, and the code is not shared between the two projects. CronQuery has a lot longer history and is 
better tested, so I recommend using that library if you need a more stable and tested library; I made this library because I 
wanted to register the jobs in the DI container and its schedule at the same time, which is not possible with CronQuery nor 
would I presume it would be a good idea to do so in that library.
